# lymil A.K.A. u/theonewholikesshapes' Map Art Extravaganza
Hello! Thanks for being interested in my obsession with map art! Here you'll find Litematica files for my map art builds, as well as map files for each if you don't feel like taking to time to replicate the entire build.
Continue reading for some important notes about this repository and map art construction
## 1. Be prepared to work
Each map covers a 128x128 block area. That's 16,384 blocks, 256 stacks, or just under 10 chests of blocks. This doesn't include support blocks to allow for staircasing, and most of the builds included here are composed of more than one map. These are mega projects, and you will underestimate how much work each takes your first time. If you don't want that kind of commitment, that's entirely fair! Just download the map file and import it into your world.
## 2. The schematics are not perfect
I have a program that spits out instructions and a materials list in the same step that it converts images to map art, so I don't use Litematica during the construction. As such the schematics have artifacts from being constructed in survival, such as support blocks and bits of terrain. I did my best to remove these afterwards, but generally speaking if a block is underneath another it's not strictly required for the build.
## 3. Blocks are interchangable
Because of how map art works, nearly every block in the builds can be switched out for another and appear as the same color on the map. I picked the blocks I believe are the easiest to gather, but if you want to check for yourself there is a list of every map color and their associated blocks [here](https://minecraft.fandom.com/wiki/Map_item_format#Color_table) (at the time of writing this table has not been updated to 1.20. I have tried decompiling minecraft to get the updated list but I cannot get MCP or any other decompilers to work. If anyone reading this knows how to decompile and wants to update the wiki page for 1.20 it would be much appreciated!). One common thing people like to switch out is concrete for wool. You can get concrete faster, but it requires gravity block duplication. Some people think gravity block duplication is cheating, and without it only wool can be automated.
## 4. Make sure the builds are aligned
As you are probably aware, Minecraft is split into 16x16 block chunks. These chunks are also grouped into 8x8 map chunks. Maps will **always** be aligned to the chunk they are first used in, so make sure the schematic is properly aligned before construction. An easy way to do this is to press F3 + G to show chunk borders and go to the top-left corner of your map. The northwestern-most block of the chunk you are standing in will correspond with the top-left block in your map. Also, make sure the schematic is rotated properly. There is a strip of support blocks running across one of the lengths of each of these build. Make sure this strip is on the northern edge of the build, as the colors will not work properly otherwise. This strip should be one block north of the top of your map, such that it does not appear on the map. This strip allows the top row of the map to be properly colored.
## 5. Build in a suitable biome
Oceans work best for map art, as they are the lowest to the ground. If you build at the right height no map should go below sea level. Do not build over cold biomes. Snow will cover your map, turning it white, and is generally a pain. If you must build over a cold biome, put a layer of glass over the map at the build limit to prevent snow from falling. If part of your map is over a non-ocean biome be prepared to excavate.
## 6. SLEEP. SLEEP. SLEEP.
SLEEP. Creepers will blow up your map. Lightning will strike flammable blocks and burn them away. Rain is just generally annoying. SERIOUSLY. SLEEP.
## 7. Displaying your map
When you put a map in an item frame, the item frame stretches to cover the entire block. This is meant to allow players to make large maps covering entire walls that map thousands of blocks, but you can use this is display map art larger than 128x128 pixels. Just put each map next to each other in item frames. Be warned, if you rename your map in an anvil the name will appear when you look at it in an item frame, which can detract from the art. I rename my maps anyways, as it makes them easier to keep track of and you can hide the name by pressing F1, but its up to you whether or not you rename your maps.

That's it! This should be everything you need to start building these map arts in survival. I did not include instructions for importing map files, as there are dozens of guides online that are more concise and comprehensive than I could ever write. If you have any questions, please message [u/theonewholikesshapes](https://www.reddit.com/user/theonewholikesshapes) on Reddit, as I'm much more likely to see it there than on Github.
